# CattlePrices
Cattle Price Setting

The program will aggregate USDA Feeder and Replacement Cattle Auction data in order to better inform price-setting decisions made by Feeder/Replacement Cattle Auction houses. To accomplish this, the user will enter their current guaranteed purchase rate for comparison with the recent sale prices from area auctions. While recent auction data can be found through searching USDA data, this program will aggregate that data to allow the user to be notified of new USDA data and generate reports which will alert the user when their guaranteed price is outside of the range of current market clearing prices.

The primary user of this information system will be the auction houses; therefore, user requirements will be focused for those needs. The primary need we will address will center around the auction house minimum price-setting function. The auction house will benefit from a portal and tool that provides accurate and timely, regional and national cattle price data in a format that is easily readable and helps in informing the minimum price-setting decision. Additionally, the product will provide categorical splits by weight, class (bull, steer, cow, or heifer), frame, and grade.

The application flow of the Kattle Blue Book program will initiate by importing multiple modules, including pandas, numpy, os, matplotlib, and sys. As well as define a function to manage user input for Yes and No responses throughout the application. At the same time, the program will define a dictionary of state name / state abbreviation key value pairs and set up necessary formatting for use with data calculations and output.

A variable is then defined and titled cattleData which will be used to import USDA data containing location, cattle specifications, and price information.  A second variable is defined at this time to import a file containing state abbreviations. Following the data import steps, we take time to clean the data by replacing NaN and empty values with zeros, formatting the fields, setting indexes, and dropping unneeded columns.

The program then moves into its interactive phase wherein it will welcome the user to the program and provide some introductory information followed by prompting the user for a username and password combination. If the user already exists, (s)he will be prompted with an option to update the existing password. The program will then prompt the user to input the state in which they are interested in comparing cattle prices. The user will also be prompted to input Class, Weight, Grade, and Frame choices, which will in turn be used to determine the Class, Weight, Grade, and Frame information from the underlying USDA data. A data frame is then generated to display historical price data for the user selected cattle specifications. Based on these criteria the program will then output historical price data and graphs to inform the user on past market clearing prices for the selected cattle. After having had the opportunity to review historical pricing, the user is then prompted to enter their proposed minimum price for the selected cattle specifications. The program will respond to this input by notifying the user how this proposed price compares to historical prices.
 
This brings the program to the completion of its purpose for the user’s input, and therefore prompts the user for decisions regarding entering a new price for the existing selection, begin the process again for a new selection of location and cattle, and whether to save the output from the most recent run in a .csv.
